

My client for this project is my father. Since I live with him, I know how much time he spends on certain things and how he just wished that there was a shortcut. We have a lot of dinners in our house and there are always a thousand things racing through my parents’ mind. “Have we assigned the table seats? Have all the guests RSVPed? Do we have enough vegetarian food for the vegetarians?” are just a few of them. So, I decided to make a program that would assign the table seats for him to make life easier and give him more time to worry about the other important things.

The process of assigning tables is actually pretty complicated. The person’s rank, gender, and name play a huge role in the assigning. To start, the host and hostess sit at the headsets, at either end of the table. The highest ranking sit to the right of the host while the people with a low ranking sit towards the middle of the table. Also, guests of the same gender and spouses do not sit next to each other. The specification I paid most attention to was the hierarchy because that is what most hosts and hostess’s pay attention to and every formal dinner has it which is the event my client usually hosts.

To make this complicated program, I really had to focus on structure and organization. For project management, I decided to make my Gantt Chart on an online Gantt chart software to be able to edit and add the tasks to the chart easily. I gave myself three days to identify the client and design a solution for them. After meeting my client, I had ten days to solve my solution and write the code.


Most of my code is pretty repetitive since I had to repeat several things 10 times. For the 10 guests invited to the party, each guest has three variables, which take up the first 43 lines of my code. The rest is followed by the function I created. The function I created converts the ranking of the guest into a table seat. With the help of my function, I was able to bundle a set of instructions repeatedly with different parameters without making my code too repetitive. In the end, for my client to be able to visualize the table assignment I decided to print a rectangle with the guests’ names on their seats. To ensure that the information my program was receiving from the user was accurate, I made three functions that would check to see if the name the user inputted was actually what I would require for the code and did not contain any unnecessary floats or alphabets when not needed. I called these functions about ten times under the user’s name/gender/ rank/  input variable.



There were many challenges I faced when making the program for my client. After figuring out what I exactly had to code, I moved onto the planning of my code. However, I was not sure how to start. At first, I decided to use a for loop and while loop that would print my three questions for each of the 10 guests 10 times. Later, I realized this would not work as I still had to manipulate the user’s input as a variable and convert it into a table seat. Then, I decided to use conditionals and used over 10 lines of booleans. The thought of making a function never crossed my mind, and I copied my 10 lines of if/else statement 10 times with different variables. After a long time, I realized what the purpose of functions were and deleted my hundred lines of code and made a function that easily prevented me from making my code too lengthy and repetitive. At one point, I asked a question on Stack Overflow but unfortunately, only after two responses a user marked my question as a duplicate without my question even being answered properly. Also, the testing process took too long for me as each time I had would have to input 30 responses on the terminal making, making the testing process to redundant for me. Nevertheless, in the end, I was able to have a functioning program that could cater to some of my client’s needs.

After beta-testing the program with my client, I realized that there were numerous ways in which I could have made this project better if I had more time. The first way would be to have a function that takes in the gender and spouse of a guest into consideration. I had initially hoped for rank, gender, and the guest’s spouse to play a role in the assigned seats but unfortunately was not able to write a function that could to do so. In my code, I wanted to make sure the computer was getting the information it required to run which is why I had checkpoints with the use of functions. However, if the user inputs it incorrectly, he or she has to start all over again as I had an “exit” function in my function. This frustrated my client and so, in the future, I would like to add something to my function that would just disregard the incorrect input and give the user an opportunity to input it again instead of making them start all over again.
